--- PAGE 1 ---
Flow boiling heat transfer in a lotus leaf-inspired microchannel heat sink 
with enhanced critical heat flux for large area chips
Zhicheng Xin a,b,d, Weiyu Tang c, Sihui Hong a,*, Zan Wu a,b,d
a College of Electrical Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China
b Key Laboratory of Power Semiconductor Materials and Devices of Zhejiang Province & Institute of Advanced Semiconductors, ZJU-Hangzhou Global Scientific and 
Technological Innovation Center, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 311215, China
c Power and Wide-band-gap Electronics Research Laboratory (POWERlab), Institute of Electrical Engineering, ´Ecole Polytechnique F´ed´erale de Lausanne (EPFL), 
Lausanne, Switzerland
d Institute of Fundamental and Transdisciplinary Research, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 311215, China
A R T I C L E  I N F O
Keywords:
Large area chip
Chip cooling
Microchannel
Heat transfer
Silver sintering
Critical heat flux
A B S T R A C T
Driven by the performance demands of microprocessors and power chips, there is a growing trend to increase the 
number of transistors and chip area in integrated circuit designs. Consequently, the thermal design power (TDP) 
of chips increases, necessitating efficient heat dissipation to ensure chip performance and reliability. In this 
study, a lotus leaf-inspired manifold ring-shaped channel cold plate was designed to cool high-power chips, 
inspired by the fluid pathways in lotus leaves. The heat sink was fabricated from copper through numerical 
topology optimization and was then assembled using silver sintering. The transitions in flow patterns and heat 
transfer mechanisms within the new heat sink design are observed and reported for the first time. The flow 
patterns in the manifold region can be categorized as bubbly flow, slug flow, annular flow, pulsating-annular 
flow, and mist flow. Pulsating-annular flow exhibits the highest pressure drop and mass flow rate fluctuations, 
significantly enhancing the heat transfer coefficient. The average heat transfer coefficient, critical heat flux, and 
COP of the new heat sink design are up to 2.13 W/(cm2⋅K), 267.05 W/cm2, and 18,906, with a hydraulic 
diameter of 0.466 mm. Compared to traditional large-area chip parallel microchannel heat sink designs, the 
experimental results indicate that the new design enhances the heat transfer coefficient, critical heat flux, and 
COP by up to 56.32 %, 1728.28 %, and 472.65 %, respectively, at a similar mass flow rate, despite its a larger 
hydraulic diameter. The new design can dissipate up to 801 W of heating power and, for the first time, achieve an 
effective heat flux dissipation of 267 W/cm2 using HFE-7100 for large-area chips. This research could provide a 
valuable reference for the design and thermal management of large-area chips and packaging.
1. Introduction
Integrated circuits have demonstrated significant advancements in 
microelectronics integration and miniaturization [1]. To meet the 
growing demands of chip performance development, the number of 
microprocessor cores increases annually [2]. Consequently, the package 
size, die area, and thermal design power (TDP) are also increasing. The 
package size, die area, and TDP of the latest server CPUs (Inter Xeon w9- 
3959X and Xeon 6980P) have already reached 77.5 mm × 56.5 mm, 4 ×
477 mm2, and 500 W, respectively [3]. For multi-core GPU micropro­
cessors, the latest model (NVIDIA GB200) has a TDP exceeding 1200 W 
[4]. The higher power and larger area of chips impose greater demands 
on heat dissipation [5]. The maximum junction temperatures for 
microprocessors and power chips are 100 ℃ [3] and 150 ℃ [6], 
respectively. When the junction temperature exceeds the maximum 
allowable operating temperature, integrated circuit chips may experi­
ence performance degradation or thermal failure [7]. Therefore, the 
implementation of effective thermal management strategies for chips is 
crucial.
Compared with conventional air cooling, liquid cooling offers higher 
heat dissipation capacity [8] and better temperature uniformity[9], 
making it one of the most effective cooling solutions for high- 
performance computing systems [10]. Compared to single-phase liquid 
cooling, two-phase liquid cooling offers higher heat dissipation potential 
within confined spaces. The flow boiling enhancement can be catego­
rized into two approaches: improving the channel wall surface and 
modifying the channel cross section.
* Corresponding author.
E-mail address: sihuihong@zju.edu.cn (S. Hong). 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Energy Conversion and Management
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/enconman
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enconman.2025.120795
Received 21 March 2025; Received in revised form 24 October 2025; Accepted 19 November 2025  
Energy Conversion and Management 348 (2026) 120795 
Available online 24 November 2025 
0196-8904/© 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. 


=====PAGE BREAK=====

--- PAGE 2 ---
The first approach involves modifying the channel wall surface to a 
rough texture, such as a porous structure [11–13] or nanostructure 
[14–16]. The auxiliary geometrical features facilitate bubble nucleation 
and increase the heat transfer area [17]. Zhang et al. [11] investigated 
the flow boiling heat transfer and pressure drop in four microchannel 
heat sinks coated with porous surfaces. They found that the porous- 
coated surface can enhance the CHF and HTC by 53.2 % and 114.5 %, 
respectively, compared to smooth surfaces. Yin et al. [16] designed 
multi-stage enhanced microchannels with micro/nanostructures and 
found that the HTC was greatly improved by up to 295.2 %, compared to 
open microchannels with a smooth structure. Another method involves 
adding microstructures to the channel wall surface, such as micropin- 
fins [18–20] and reentrant cavity structures [21–23]. Li et al. [21] 
found that the micronozzles could sustain the liquid film through 
capillarity induced in a reentry cavity array, thereby enhancing the CHF 
by up to 70 %, compared to plain microchannels. However, surface 
modification increases the complexity of heat sink fabrication and may 
become ineffective after long-term use [24].
The microchannel cross-section can enhance heat transfer by pre­
venting bubbles from obstructing the flow boiling [25]. The geometry of 
the microchannel is modified to drive the bubbles to detach from the 
channel wall, based on the rectangular channel, such as a triangle shape 
(V-shape) [26], diverging shape [27], Ω-shaped [28], and wave-shaped 
[29]. Chen et al. [26] investigated the heat transfer performance of 
triangular, rectangular, and trapezoidal cross-sections. They found that 
the triangular cross-section exhibited the highest thermal efficiency. Cui 
and Liu [29] studied the flow boiling in wave-shaped channels. They 
found that the wave-shaped channel can improve CHF by 28.89 % and 
enhance the HTC in the nucleate boiling and thin film evaporation stages 
by 60.76 % and 52.71 %, respectively. Additionally, flow disruption 
structures can interfere with the development of the thermal boundary 
layers [25]. Megahed [30] introduced a cross-linked structure in the 
heat sink, achieving better temperature uniformity by shortening the 
thermal boundary layer.
However, as the chip area increases, flow maldistribution intensifies, 
leading to local dry-out and reduced critical heat flux (CHF). Al-Zaidi 
et al. [31] reported CHF values of 7.5–20 W/cm2 for a 500 mm2 heat­
ing area, while Fu et al.[32] observed CHF between 11.7 and 25.6 W/ 
cm2 for a 450 mm2 area. This indicates that uniform coolant distribution 
is a key challenge for large-area, high-heat-flux chips.
To address this, our previous numerical study proposed a silicon- 
based ring-shaped connection channel design [33]. The selection of 
silicon as the base material was driven by its high compatibility with 
semiconductor processes, a thermal expansion coefficient perfectly 
matching with chips, and the capability to achieve high-precision, 
complex geometries through mature microfabrication techniques like 
Deep Reactive-Ion Etching. Regarding the ring-shaped channel archi­
tecture itself, this design offers distinct advantages over conventional 
parallel serpentine channels. It mitigates flow stagnation zones, pro­
motes fluid mixing and redistribution, and consequently demonstrates 
the potential for superior chip surface temperature uniformity while 
reducing overall flow resistance.
Building upon this hydraulic framework, a lotus leaf-inspired struc­
ture is introduced. Its flow-path network mimics the vein-capillary 
transport network of a natural lotus leaf. Our design transcends mere 
morphological imitation; it incorporates the underlying physics that 
reduce flow resistance. Unlike random surface roughness or periodic 
micro-fin arrays, this bio-inspired fractal pattern is engineered to induce 
specific secondary flows or vortices within the channels. This enhances 
fluid-wall interaction and heat transfer augmentation without a signif­
icant penalty in pumping power. This biomimetic design is fabricated 
and assembled using copper, providing good manufacturability and 
coolant compatibility.
Because of the key properties of HFE-7100 [34], such as its very low 
dielectric constant (ensuring compatibility with electronics), suitable 
boiling point (for single-phase and potential phase-change cooling), 
good material compatibility, and environmental friendliness (zero 
ODP), the dielectric fluid HFE-7100 has been widely applied in the 
cooling of power modules [35], batteries [36], chip cooling [37], and 
other electronic devices. In the two-phase heat transfer process, its low 
Nomenclature
A
Area, m2
Aheat
Heating area, cm2
Awet
Wetted heat transfer area between coolant and 
microchannel, cm2
COP
Coefficient of performance
cp
Specific heat, J/(kg⋅K)
Dh
Hydraulic diameter, mm
h
Heat transfer coefficient, W/(m2⋅K)
heff
Effective base-area-averaged heat transfer coefficient, W/ 
(m2⋅K)
hwet
Wet-area-averaged heat transfer coefficient, W/(m2⋅K)
H
Height, mm
HTC
Heat transfer coefficient, W/(cm2⋅K)
k
Thermal conductivity, W/(m⋅K)
˙m
Mass flow rate, g/s
Δp
Pressure drop, kPa
qeff
Heat flux, W/cm2
Qeff
Net heat transfer to the fluid, W
Qheater
Heat supplied by the heater, W
Qloss
Heat loss to the ambient, W
Rt
Thermal resistance, cm2⋅K/W
T
Temperature, ℃
TDP
Thermal design power
TTV
Thermal test vehicle
ΔT
Temperature difference, ℃
U
Uncertainty
W
Width, mm
Greek letters
δ
Thickness, mm
η
efficiency
μ
Fluid dynamic viscosity, Pa⋅s
ρ
density, kg/m3
Subscripts
ave
Average
bonding
The bonding layer between microchannel and manifold
c
Channel
cond
Conductive
conv
Convective
chip
Chip
f
Fluid
fin
Center fins
in
Inlet
m
Manifold
m,in
Manifold inlet
m,out
Manifold outlet
max
Maximum
min
Minimum
out
Outlet
w
Microchannel wall
wet
Wetted
Z. Xin et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Energy Conversion and Management 348 (2026) 120795 
2 


=====PAGE BREAK=====

--- PAGE 3 ---
surface tension and excellent wettability on the copper-based heat sink 
promote bubble nucleation and spreading. Combined with the flow 
distribution advantage of the lotus-leaf-inspired design, HFE-7100 fa­
cilitates accelerated rewetting and guides the coolant smoothly through 
the microchannels, resulting in more stable fluid supply and reduced 
local dry-out. Therefore, HFE-7100 is employed in this study.
In summary, although many studies have enhanced two-phase heat 
transfer through surface modifications or channel design, most focus on 
small heating areas. For large-area, high-power chips, flow nonunifor­
mity leads to low CHF and a low energy coefficient of performance 
(COP) in conventional heat sink designs. This study proposes and 
experimentally validates a lotus leaf-inspired design using HFE-7100, 
aiming to achieve higher CHF, higher HTC, a higher COP, and 
improved temperature uniformity, thereby providing design guidance 
for next-generation liquid cooling technologies for high-power chips.
2. Experimental method
2.1. Design of the lotus leaf-inspired microchannel
The conceptual design of the lotus leaf-inspired manifold micro­
channel is illustrated in Fig. 1. The fluid first enters the central fin array, 
creating a jet-impingement cooling region. The HTC is enhanced due to 
the high-speed jet-impingement effect. The fluid then flows into the 
manifold region, where its flow direction is altered by the manifold 
layer’s diversion. In the connection microchannels, fluid flows from the 
adjacent manifold sections into individual microchannels. The fluid 
within the connection microchannel undergoes a cross-flow mixing ef­
fect due to the opposing flow directions, which helps reduce the increase 
in fluid temperature and facilitates bubble removal. The flow direction 
creates a T-type flow pattern within the microchannel, a unique feature 
of the manifold ring-shaped connection channel. The fluid flow path 
design is inspired by the stem-vein-capillary structure of the lotus leaf’s 
tertiary sap supply system.
However, the flow and thermal boundary layers may develop along 
the flow path within the connection ring-shaped channel. The manifold 
layer is integrated with the ring-shaped connection channel to shorten 
the flow path. Additionally, the large manifold outlet region provides 
ample space for bubble growth. The expansion design aids in the rapid 
removal of bubbles from the heat sink. Therefore, this novel lotus leaf- 
inspired manifold microchannel design may demonstrate superior 
thermal and hydraulic performance during the flow boiling process.
The lotus leaf-inspired manifold microchannel design adopts a flow- 
path architecture analogous to the vein–capillary transport network of a 
lotus leaf. By integrating a jet-impingement core, a diversion manifold, 
and ring-shaped connection channels, the design achieves multi- 
directional liquid redistribution and cross-flow mixing. As elaborated 
in the Introduction, this biomimetic approach is distinct from conven­
tional surface structuring. It leverages the fundamental flow-resistance- 
lowering principles observed in nature, aiming to generate specific 
secondary flows that enhance mixing and heat transfer. This biomimetic 
flow direction synergizes with the low surface tension of HFE-7100, 
promoting rapid rewetting and guiding the coolant smoothly through 
the microchannels. As a result, it ensures stable fluid supply, reduces 
local dry-out, and enhances temperature uniformity and boiling stability 
for large-area and high-power chips.
The inclusion of a baffle in the manifold layer can improve mass flow 
maldistribution and temperature nonuniformity during single-phase 
heat transfer in a manifold microchannel heat sink [38]. However, in 
the two-phase heat transfer regime, the baffle above the channels may 
hinder bubble growth and removal. As a result, the inclusion of the 
baffle impairs flow boiling performance. Two distinct manifold struc­
tures are designed for the connection ring-shaped channel based on the 
optimization results for single-phase heat transfer. Sample 1 represents 
the manifold without a baffle, while Sample 2 features the manifold with 
a baffle design, as shown in Fig. 2(a). ANSYS FLUENT software was 
utilized for conjugate thermal-fluid simulations to optimize manifold 
and channel dimensions, enhancing both thermal and hydraulic per­
formance. The optimization goal is to minimize the maximum temper­
ature rise at the heat source surface and reduce the pressure drop. The 
specific dimensional parameters of the lotus leaf-inspired microchannel 
are presented in Fig. 2(b) and Table 1.
2.2. Fabrication of the thermal test vehicle
A gold film resistor is employed as the large-area heating source for 
the TTV. The chip area is a 20 mm diameter circle, with two serpentine 
lines applied to generate uniform heat. The gold film resistors were 
fabricated using photolithography and magnetron sputtering on an 
insulated silicon dioxide layer above intrinsic silicon. Additionally, a 
silver film was sputtered onto the backside of the silicon wafer for the 
subsequent sintering process. The fabrication process and a detailed 
view of the heating chip are presented in Figs. 3(a), (b),(c), and (d).
The TTV comprises five components: a glass top layer, a copper 
manifold layer, a copper ring-shaped channel layer, an active metal 
brazing (AMB) plate, and a chip. The copper ring-shaped channel layer 
Fig. 1. The MRC structure diagram: (a) a 3D view of the manifold ring-shaped channel heat sink (where the blue area and the red area represent the inlet region and 
outlet region, respectively); (b) a local enlargement of the flow structure; (c) the inlet and outlet region; (d) the stem-vein-capillary structure of the lotus leaf’s 
tertiary sap supply system.
Z. Xin et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Energy Conversion and Management 348 (2026) 120795 
3 


=====PAGE BREAK=====

--- PAGE 4 ---
incorporates a central fin array and 12 microchannels. The manifold 
layer is positioned above the microchannel layer, dividing the micro­
channels into eight connected sections. Due to the mismatch in thermal 
expansion coefficients between the silicon chip and the copper-based 
heat sink, the AMB plate is positioned between them to prevent the 
chip from cracking during the thermal test. The transparent quartz glass 
top layer provides a visual reference for observing bubble behavior and 
flow pattern transitions.
The components are assembled using the silver sintering technique 
due to its high thermal conductivity and reliability. The commercial 
silver paste ASP 338–28 (Heraeus) is employed to prepare a silver sin­
tered layer with high-quality sintering and low porosity via the hot 
pressing sintering process. The thermal conductivity of the silver sin­
tered layer reaches up to 254 W/(m·K), as measured using a laser 
thermal conductivity meter (NETZSCH LFA 457, MicroFlash). Finally, 
the glass top layer is assembled with the sintered samples using bolt 
fasteners to complete the preparation of the TTV, as shown in Fig. 4.
2.3. Test facility
The diagram of the experimental system is depicted in Fig. 5. The 
entire experimental system can be divided into a coolant degassing 
system and an experimental loop system. In the coolant degassing sys­
tem, a storage tank equipped with a ceramic heater was used to degas 
HFE-7100 at ambient pressure prior to the experimental trials. A plate- 
type heat exchanger was placed between the storage tank and the fluid 
loop to lower the liquid temperature and prevent cavitation in the gear 
pump. A vacuum pump and an intermediate bypass system were used to 
evacuate the experimental loop entirely, removing non-condensable 
gases from the injected coolant. Within the experimental loop, the 
coolant flows through the following components: the system pressure 
regulator, a 50 μm filter, a gear pump, a Coriolis mass flow meter, a plate 
heat exchanger, a 15 μm filter, a preheater, the test section, and two 
additional plate heat exchangers. The gear pump can deliver a maximum 
flow rate of 1.0 L/min and a maximum pressure difference of 650 kPa. 
The Coriolis mass flow meter precisely measures the mass flow rate of 
the coolant. Two heat exchangers were placed downstream of the test 
section to cool the coolant to a specified temperature. The preheater 
supplies heat to maintain the inlet temperature constant when the low 
mass flow rate causes poor heat transfer performance in the heat ex­
changers. The high-speed camera observes the bubble behavior and flow 
pattern transitions.
Fig. 6(a) illustrates the tested TTV system. An infrared camera, 
equipped with a 45-degree angled infrared reflector, was used to mea­
sure the temperature distribution of the heating chip. The heating chip 
was powered by Joule heating through a manually regulated DC power 
supply. The experimental setup was thermally insulated by wrapping the 
test section and connecting pipes with elastomeric foam. A pressure 
transmitter monitored the inlet pressure of the test section, while a 
differential pressure transmitter measured the pressure drop within the 
test section. Inlet and outlet coolant temperatures were recorded using 
0.3 mm T-type thermocouples. The high-speed camera recorded videos 
of bubble behavior and flow patterns in the TTV through the microscope 
lens, capturing the transition process during flow boiling. The physical 
diagrams of the TTV are shown in Fig. 6(b). The TTV consists of the 
terminals, AMB plate, heating source, and copper heat sink, with a total 
thickness of 4.2 mm, fulfilling the requirements for electronics cooling. 
The chip surface was coated with a layer of black paint to increase its 
emissivity. Because the inlet is positioned above the visualization glass 
cover, panoramic shots of the entire heat sink are unclear due to the 
occlusion of the inlet tube and the limitations of the focal length. Given 
the symmetry of the manifold design, the mass flow within the eight 
flow units can be considered approximately uniform. As a result, the 
filming of the flow transition is focused on one of the eight units. The 
two-phase flow transition in the area outside the high-speed camera’s 
visual field is similar to that recorded and displayed in the flow images, 
as verified by adjusting the camera lens and observing during the ex­
periments. As shown in Fig. 6(c), the flow pattern in the microchannel 
region differs from that in the manifold region. However, some flow 
patterns in the microchannel region cannot be clearly observed due to 
the shading caused by the flow patterns in the manifold region.
The operating conditions were as follows: the inlet mass flow rate 
ranged from 3 to 12 g/s, the inlet fluid temperature Tin was set at 50 ◦C 
(±1◦C), and the outlet pressure Pout was maintained between 100 kPa 
and 110 kPa. The experimental procedure is as follows. First, HFE-7100 
in the storage tank was degassed by vigorous boiling for two hours prior 
to the experiments. Meanwhile, the experimental loop was evacuated to 
the lowest possible pressure. Next, the test section was assembled and 
connected to the experimental loop. Data collection began once the 
system reached a steady state. Temperature, pressure and power data 
were recorded as the average of a minimum of 20 consecutive sampling 
points. Testing was terminated when the heater surface approached a 
maximum temperature of approximately 150 ◦C or when the pressure in 
the TTV could no longer be maintained at a constant value. Each 
experimental condition was tested until the maximum heat flux was 
reached.
3. Data reduction
3.1. Data reduction
The total heating power of the heating chip in the TTV is calculated 
as follows: 
Fig. 2. The schematic diagram of two designs for lotus leaf-inspired 
microchannel.
Table 1 
Optimized geometric parameters.
Region
Parameter
Symbol
Value
Microchannels
microchannel depth
Hc
1.4 mm
microchannel width
Wc
0.3 mm
wall thickness
Ww
0.3 mm
Manifold
manifold depth
Hm
1.8 mm
width of the manifold inlet
Wm,in
0.5 mm
width of the manifold outlet
Wm,out
1.5 mm
Fin array
fin height
Hfin
1.5 mm
Z. Xin et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Energy Conversion and Management 348 (2026) 120795 
4 


=====PAGE BREAK=====

--- PAGE 5 ---
Qtotal = V × I
(1) 
The V and I are the voltage and current of the DC power supply.
Most heat is absorbed in the coolant, but a minor portion of heat is 
dissipated to the environment through natural convection and radiation 
heat transfer. The effective power transferred to the coolant, denoted as 
Qeff can be calculated as: 
Qeff = Qtotal −Qloss
(2) 
The Qloss is the heat power that is dissipated into the environment. It can 
be determined by calibrating the heating chip under natural convection 
and radiation heat transfer conditions. The relationship between heat 
loss and temperature can be determined as: 
Qloss = 0.1055 ×
(
Tchip,ave −3.089
)
(3) 
The heat source here is considered a uniform surface heat source, so the 
effective heat flux qeff are: 
qeff = Qeff
Achip
(4) 
Achip is the chip area, and the area is 3.14 cm2.
The heat transfer process is divided into single-phase sensible heat­
ing and two-phase latent heating. The thermodynamic quality at the 
outlet is calculated using the following equation. 
xout = Qeff −Qsesible
˙mhLV
= Qeff −
˙mcp
(
Tsat,out −Tf,in
)
˙mhLV
(5) 
hLV is the latent heat of vaporization and is evaluated at the saturation 
temperature based on the outlet pressure, the saturation temperature, 
and other thermophysical properties of the coolant HFE-7100 from the 
NIST database.
According to the average temperature of the chip surface, the ther­
Fig. 3. The fabrication process of the heating source and components of TTV (a) The heating source fabrication process: Step 1: LPCVD SiO2, Step 2: photoli­
thography, sputtering, and lift-off of Ti/Au, Step 3: sputtering of Ag film; (b) the detailed diagram of the heating source; (c) the components of the TTV; (d) the fluid- 
contact region in the TTV.
Fig. 4. The fabrication process of the TTV.
Z. Xin et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Energy Conversion and Management 348 (2026) 120795 
5 


=====PAGE BREAK=====

--- PAGE 6 ---
mal resistance R can be defined as: 
Rtotal = Tchip,ave −Tin
qeff
(6) 
Where the Tchip,ave is the average temperature of the chip.
Since the chip and channel cover areas are equal, the heat transfer 
path can be simplified as a one-dimensional heat transfer model. The 
total thermal resistance Rtotal, is segmented into three components: Rcond 
for conduction thermal resistance, Rconv for convection resistance, and 
Rheat for fluid heat thermal resistance.
Fig. 5. Schematic diagram of the TTV experimental setup and test facility.
Fig. 6. The physical diagram of (a) the test section, (b) the thermal test vehicle (TTV) and (c) the high-speed camera observation.
Z. Xin et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Energy Conversion and Management 348 (2026) 120795 
6 


=====PAGE BREAK=====

--- PAGE 7 ---
The conduction thermal resistance Rcond can be calculated through 
Fourier’s law of heat conduction: 
Rcond = δSiO2
kSiO2
+ δAg
kAg
+ δAg−sin
kAg−sin
+ δCu
kCu
+ δAlN
kAlN
+ δsub
ksub
(7) 
Where Tw,ave is the average temperature of the channel substrate. The 
δSiO2,δAg,δAg-sin,δCu,δAlN, and δsub denote the thickness of the silicon oxide 
layer, silver film, sintered-Ag layer, copper layer, ceramic layer, and 
channel substrate, respectively. The kSiO2, kAg, kAg-sin, kCu, kAlN, and ksub 
stand for the thermal conductivity of the silicon oxide layer, silver film, 
sintered-Ag layer, copper layer, ceramic layer, and substrate (copper), 
respectively. The parameter value is shown in Table 2. Table 3 lists the 
uncertainties of the measured parameters.
The thermal conductivity of Cu was extracted from the ANSYS 
FLUENT solid database. The thermal conductivity of the sintered silver 
layer was measured by the laser thermal conductivity meter, as given in 
section 2.3.
The convective thermal resistance Rconv is expressed as: 
Rconv = Tw,ave −Tref
qeff
(8) 
Tref is defined as the average fluid temperature between the inlet and 
outlet temperature.
As the fluid absorbs heat, it also heats up in the process. The thermal 
resistance Rheat accounts for the rise in the average temperature of the 
fluid due to this heat absorption. It can be expressed as: 
Rheat = Tref −Tin
qeff
(9) 
The fin efficiency of the microchannel structure in the cold plate ηfin,c is 
calculated as: 
ηfin,channel = tanh(mHc)
mHc
(10) 
m =
̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
2hc
kCuWc,fin
√
(11) 
The global fin efficiency ηchannel of the ring-shaped channel is expressed 
as: 
ηc = 1 −
Afin,c
Awet,c
(
1 −ηfin,c
)
(12) 
Therefore, the heat flux transferred to the fluid through the ring-shaped 
channel is calculated: 
qc =
(
Tw,ave −Tref
)
⋅h⋅Awet,c⋅ηc
(13) 
The fin efficiency of the manifold structure ηfin,m is calculated as follows: 
ηfin,m = tanh(nHm)
nHm
(14) 
n =
̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
2hm
kCuWm,fin
√
(15) 
The global fin efficiency ηmmanifold of the manifold is expressed as: 
ηm = 1 −
Afin,m
Awet,m
(
1 −ηfin,m
)
(16) 
The heat transferred to the fluid through the manifold plate is calculated 
by: 
qm =
(
Tbonding,ave −Tref
)
⋅hm⋅Awet,m⋅ηm
(17) 
Given the high thermal conductivity of sintered silver and its minimal 
thickness (0.02 mm), the temperature at the top of the channel fin is 
assumed equal to the temperature at the base of the manifold fin (the 
bonding temperature). This temperature can be calculated using the 
ideal fin model: 
Tbongding,ave =
Tw,ave
cosh(mHc)
(18) 
where m is the parameter in equation (6).
The sum of all the heat fluxes of the channel and the manifold is the 
effective heat flux: 
qeff = qc + qm
=
[
hc⋅
(
Tw,ave −Tref
)
⋅Awet,c⋅ηcp + hm⋅
(
Tw,ave
cosh(mHc) −Tref
)
⋅Awet,m⋅ηm
]
(19) 
The average convective HTC can be solved by combining equations (5) 
to (13) and iterative calculation. The Nusselt number in the micro­
channel can be calculated as: 
Nu = hcDh
kfluid
(20) 
Where Dh is the hydraulic diameter of the microchannel: 
Dh = 2WcHc
Wc + Hc
(21) 
The effective base-area-averaged heat transfer coefficient heff is on the 
footprint area of the cooling chip, which is expressed as: 
heff =
qeff
Tw,ave −Tref
(22) 
The following equation calculates the average mass flux through each 
channel: 
Gc =
˙m
NmNcHcWc
(23) 
The Nm is the number of manifold regions (Nm = 8), and NC is the 
number of channels (Nc = 12).
The COP can be defined as the flow equation: 
Table 2 
The parameters of each component.
Component
Thickness δ
Thermal conductivity k (W/(m*k))
Si
500 nm
150 [39]
SiO2
300 nm
1 [39]
Ag
100 nm
430 [40]
Sintered silver (Ag-sin)
66.7 μm
254
Cu
0.1 mm
387.6
AlN
0.66 mm
170 [41]
Substrate
1.0 mm
387.6
Table 3 
Uncertainties of the measured parameters.
Measured parameters
Unit
Symbol
Uncertainty
Heating chip temperature
℃
Tchip
± 1 ℃
Inlet and outlet temperature
℃
Tf,in, Tf,out
± 0.1 ℃
Inlet and outlet pressure drop
kPa
ΔP
± 0.4 %
Mass flow rate
g/s
˙m
± 0.05 %
Voltage of the chip
V
Uc
± 0.1 %
Current of the chip
A
Ic
± 0.1 %
Z. Xin et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Energy Conversion and Management 348 (2026) 120795 
7 


=====PAGE BREAK=====

--- PAGE 8 ---
COP = Qmax
P
= qmaxAsource
P
(24) 
P = vΔp
(25) 
The P is the pump power, v is the volume flow rate of the fluid, Δp is the 
pressure drop of the heat sink.
3.2. Measurement uncertainty
The uncertainty associated with directly measured parameters is 
contingent upon the precision of the test instruments. Before conducting 
measurements, the uncertainty in the infrared measurement was cali­
brated and evaluated by aligning the average chip temperature recorded 
by the infrared camera with the reference average chip temperature 
under conditions with no power input.
During calibration, the TTV was incorporated into the experimental 
loop, and the chip temperature was regulated by adjusting the coolant 
temperature. The coolant temperature was measured using the ther­
mocouples at the sample’s inlet and outlet, with the average tempera­
ture of these thermocouples acting as the reference temperature. 
Subsequently, the average temperature recorded by the infrared camera 
was adjusted to align with the reference temperature, thereby calibrat­
ing the infrared camera’s measurement accuracy. After calibration, the 
uncertainty of Tchip,ave measured by the infrared camera is ± 1◦C under 
100 ℃ and ± 1 % above 100 ℃. The uncertainty of the inlet and outlet 
fluid temperatures, Tf,in, and Tf,out, was calibrated to ± 0.1◦C, as deter­
mined by the thermocouples.
The uncertainty of the indirectly measured parameters was calcu­
lated using error propagation theory. Suppose y is the indirectly calcu­
lated parameter, which can be calculated from several directly measured 
parameters xi, as represented by the following equation: 
y = f(x1, x2, ⋯, xn)
(18) 
Then, the uncertainty Uy in y, as determined by the uncertainty in each 
independent parameter Uxi, can be expressed using the following 
equation. 
U2
y =
∑
n
i=1
(∂y
∂xi
Uxi
)2
(18) 
The experimental uncertainties are listed in Table 4 and Fig. 7. The 
average uncertainties are 1.17 %, 3.68 % and 6.14 % for heat flux, 
thermal resistance and heat transfer coefficient.
4. Results and discussion
The experiments were conducted at an ambient temperature of 
around 25 ◦C, with the test system being thermally insulated from the 
surroundings. Initially, tests were performed to measure the tempera­
ture increase on the chip surface under different heating and flow con­
ditions. The inlet mass flow rate ˙m ranged from 3 to 12 g/s, and the 
calculated mass flow rate in the microchannel ranged from 85 to 340 
(kg/m2·s).
4.1. Thermal performances
The average temperature (Tave), temperature difference ΔT (Tmax ¡
Tave), and heat sink thermal resistance (RSH) of Sample 1 and Sample 2 
are presented in Fig. 8. The performance of the heat sink was evaluated 
across mass flow rates ranging from 85 to 340 kg/(m2·s). During the 
experimental tests, the average chip temperature increased with the 
heat flux increase. Distinct growth trends were observed in the single- 
phase and two-phase heat transfer process, as shown in Fig. 8. The up­
ward trend in the single-phase regime is steeper than that in the two- 
phase regime, with the ONB point acting as the demarcation point. 
This could be attributed to the higher HTC in the two-phase regime 
compared to the single-phase regime. However, the average chip tem­
perature increased significantly as the heat flux continued to rise, indi­
cating that heat flux is approaching the CHF.
The temperature difference reflects the temperature uniformity 
across the chip surface. The temperature difference increased with the 
rise in heat flux. No distinct separation point was observed between the 
single-phase and two-phase regimes. The growth trends of the maximum 
temperature Tmax and Tave exhibited synchronous variations, influenced 
by HTC. Consequently, no clear demarcation point existed between the 
single-phase regime and the two-phase regime. Sample 2 exhibits better 
temperature uniformity than Sample 1. At the same heat flux, the ΔT is 2 
℃ lower in Sample 2 than in Sample 1. At the recorded maximum heat 
flux of 263 W/cm2 in Sample 1, ΔT is 6.5 ℃.
The change in heat sink thermal resistance (Rt) can also be catego­
rized into the single-phase and two-phase regimes. The Rt in the two- 
phase regime is significantly lower than that in the single-phase 
regime. At a mass flow rate of 85 kg/(m2·s) for Sample 1, the Rt 
decreased from 1.464 cm2⋅K/W in the single-phase regime to 0.399 
cm2⋅K/W in the two-phase regime, representing a reduction of 72.74 % 
in the heat sink thermal resistance. Similarly, at a mass flow rate of 340 
kg/(m2·s), the Rt decreased from 0.639 cm2⋅K/W to 0.308 cm2⋅K/W, 
representing a reduction of 51.76 %. It can be observed that the thermal 
resistance curves at low mass flow rates coincide with those at high mass 
flow rates in the two-phase regime, exhibiting a more significant 
reduction in Rt during the transition from single-phase to two-phase 
regime. At the 85 kg/(m2·s), the Rt reduces from 1.464 cm2⋅K/W in 
Sample 1 to 1.292 cm2⋅K/W in Sample 2 in the sing-phase regime. 
However, in the two-phase regime, the minimum Rt increases from 
0.399 cm2⋅K/W in Sample 1 to 0.433 cm2⋅K/W in Sample 2. This sug­
gests that the addition of a baffle in the manifold layer can enhance heat 
transfer in the single-phase regime but may degrade heat transfer in the 
two-phase regime.
The temperature distribution maps of the large-area heating source 
at varying mass flow rates and heat fluxes for Sample 1 and Sample 2 are 
presented in Fig. 9. These maps are directly derived from the infrared 
camera. It can be observed that the temperature uniformity is nearly 
identical in both samples under low heat flux. As the heat flux increases, 
the uniformity of temperature distribution may deteriorate, particularly 
at low mass flow rates. In comparison to a low mass flow rate of 85 kg/ 
(m2·s), a higher mass flow rate of 340 kg/(m2·s) enhances the temper­
ature distribution uniformity under the same heat flux. The primary 
Table 4 
Uncertainties of the calculated parameters.
Calculated parameters
Unit
Symbol
Error analysis
Heat flux
W/cm2
qeff
∂qeff
qeff
=
̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
(δU
U
)2
+
(δI
I
)2
+
(δTchip,ave
Tchip,ave
)2
√
Thermal resistance
cm2·K/W
Rtotal
∂Rtotal
Rtotal
=
̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
(
δqeff
qeff
)2
+
(
δTchip,ave
Tchip,ave −Tf,in
)2
+
(
δTf,in
Tchip,ave −Tf,in
)2
√
√
√
√
Heat transfer coefficient
W/(cm2·K)
heff
∂heff
heff
=
̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
(
δqeff
qeff
)2
+
(
δTw
Tw −Tf,ref
)2
+
(
δTf,ref
Tw,ref −Tw,ref
)2
√
√
√
√
Z. Xin et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Energy Conversion and Management 348 (2026) 120795 
8 
